Aufgabe 1

1. Was ist Modellieren und was ist ein Modell?

	A model is a represantation of a particular phenomena in the world.


2. Was ist ein Diagramm?

	A diagram is a symbolic representation of information using visualization techniques.

3. Was ist eine Modellierungssprache?

	A modeling language is any artificial language that can be used to express information or 
	knowledge or systems in a structure that is defined by a consistent set of rules. 
	The rules are used for interpretation of the meaning of components in the structure.

4. Warum trägt UML (Unified Modeling Language) den Begriff „Unified“?

   It supports the whole development process.
   Flexibility in Procedural models.
   Independent.


5. Welche Aspekte (Sichten auf die Sachverhalte) bietet UML an?

Static Aspects
	-describe structures, which are valid over the whole life span.

Dynamic aspects
	-describe the change over time

Software-organizational aspects
	-describe the breakdown of the models

6. Welche Modelle betreffen welche Aspekte?

	Static Aspects are for the quantity of the same objects and is defined by attributes, operations and relations to other classes.

	Dynamic Aspects is a self-contained pro-active behavior and is defined by actions, control and data flow as well any responsibilities.

	Software-organizational aspects are compound objects where their inner structure/implementation is strongly capsuled.

7. Erklären Sie die 4 Ebenen der Modellierung (M3, M2, M1, M0). Auf welcher Ebene
befindet man sich als Modellierer von Anwendungssystemen?

	M3 Meta Object Facility		
	
		Abstract level to define M2 level
		
	M2 UML Metamodel e.g Class, Interface
	
		Defining how the model is built up and structured
	
	M1 Model 
	
		Concrete classes.
		
	M0 
		
		Objects.

8. Erklären Sie in Bezug auf UML-Klassendiagramme folgende Begriffe:
 Attribut, Operation, Multiplizitäten
	attributs:
		
		attributs are the variables of the class.
		
	operation:
	
		operations are the method of the class.
	
	multiplicity:

		The multiplicity is an indication of how many objects may participate 
		in the given relationship, or the allowable number of instances of the element.

 Assoziation, n-äre Assoziation, Assoziationsklasse
	association:
		
		Association defines a relationship between classes of objects that 
		allows one object instance to cause another to perform an action on its behalf.
		
	n-äre association:

		relation between more than 2 classes.

	associationclass:
	
		An associationclass is a class whose attributs and operations describe the relation between two classes.
	
 Aggregation/Komposition

 Generalisierung, Generalisierungsmengen

	complete/incomplete
	
		In a complete generalization every instance of the superclass must 
		also be an instance of at least one subclass.
		
	disjoint/overlapping
	
		In a overlapping generalization an object can be an instance of more than one subclass.
 